The next part of our program will be an analysis of what tools we have to stimulate labor,
and there are not so many of them, and what combinations can be made of this, and what we get as a result.
So, let's take a closer look at the tools that we, as managers, have in stock
in order to form a compensation plan that is attractive to our employees.
A compensation plan is a house of cubes that our employee should like.
Our employees are different, so we will provide different compensation plans to different employees,
in order to stimulate their behavior, which is required of these employees for our company.
But there are relatively few cubes from which these plans are made.
Let's start with the fact that all these components of the compensation plan, all these cubes, can be divided into two categories.
The first category is direct payments, that is, this is the money that our employees receive
as compensation for working at our enterprise, giving us their time, energy, strength, knowledge, and so on.
The second category is what is commonly called a social package.
At first glance, the social package is not very related to stimulating labor.
As a rule, it is not money, it is either a guarantee, or a compensation, or goods and services that the enterprise provides to its employees.
Nevertheless, if we look at the most advanced and developed organizations, they have a large and rather complex social package.
Let's take a separate look at the components of the social package and try to understand why it is needed and how to design it.
Let's start with direct payments.
Direct payments are also divided into two parts.
The first part is the permanent part, that is, what our employee receives every month, regardless of how he worked.
The second part is the variable part, which is the part that the employee receives to a greater or lesser extent,
in connection with a particular collective or individual result.
Let's start with the permanent part.
At most enterprises, there is a thing called a positional package.
To do this, a tariff grid is developed, that is, a table that shows which category of employees is subject to which package.
As a rule, the tariff grid and its categories have a certain width, which is called a conditional fork.
That is, within each category there is a minimum, a median, an average and a maximum part.
We will look at how the tariff grid is formed separately.
The second part is personal add-ons.
In the case when a given employee does not pay the tariff grid according to his merits and values for the organization,
we can offer him additional monetary rewards.
For what? For the experience of working in our company.
There are companies that add money to the old employees for remaining loyal to the enterprise.
The more employees remain at the enterprise, the more these add-ons.
Maybe for special knowledge and qualifications.
Let's imagine that our organization actively works with representatives of different countries,
and we need managers who can communicate in Chinese, Japanese, Hindi, etc.
We can pay people for mastering rare foreign languages.
I will say only one thing about add-ons.
This is a very useful thing, because it individualizes the attitude of the employer to the employee.
It shows the employee his personal, individual value for the organization.
But I do not recommend getting too involved in add-ons,
because it often turns out that all the order in the labor payment,
which we tried to establish with the help of the tariff grid and the construction of premium rewards,
is interrupted by a huge number of add-ons, which are purely individual,
and as a result, the whole system loses its controllability, clarity and integrity.
And finally, the constant part is the compensation for the worker's expenses.
What is it?
Imagine that we have several drivers on our personal cars.
Of course, they spend money on the service, on technical inspection, on repair, on gasoline.
These are the personal funds that a person, due to his position and role, invests in the work of our enterprise.
Naturally, it would be fair if the enterprise compensated him for this money.
The variable part.
The variable part includes two components, one of which is called premiums, and the other is called bonuses.
These terms are often confused.
I propose to define them this way.
The premium is what is relatively small in relation to the deposit,
well, the maximum is 100%, no more than the deposit.
And it is paid often, at a certain period of time.
It is paid either once a month or once a quarter.
What are bonuses?
A bonus is a reward that is paid rarely, usually once a year, and it is large in relation to the deposit.
For example, it can reach 10, 12 deposits.
Bonuses are a significant expense for an enterprise due to their size.
Therefore, it is not always advisable to pay them to all categories of workers.
This system is not always effective.
What categories of workers should be paid to, and why, we will find out in the third part of the course,
when we will consider specific situations and cases.
These are all the cubes from which we can draw up compensation plans.
It seems that there are not so many of them, and the picture is quite simple.
But this is only at first glance.
Now we will consider these components of the compensation plan separately.
We will try to understand the logic by which they are built, how they work,
and what we need to do to make them all work effectively at our enterprise.
Each of the components of the compensation plan has its own purpose in the incentive system.
Let's consider them separately and try to understand what we want to achieve from the worker
using each of these cubes or bricks that we have just discussed.
The first one.
The permanent part of the compensation plan, that is, the duty deposit,
is aimed at providing the level of life that the worker would like to maintain.
We remember that this is one of the most important factors in the worker's attitude to the incentive system.
The second one.
The permanent part provides the worker with loyalty,
because he knows that he will receive it tomorrow and the day after tomorrow,
and in the future, he will be given a promotion under good conditions.
This is a feeling of confidence in the future and loyalty to our employee at the enterprise.
And finally, the permanent part, due to its size, is our message to the worker,
our signal to him that we highly appreciate his work.
The high permanent part, high duty deposits,
is a demonstration from the employer that the worker is appreciated by the organization.
Again, we see a mix of moral and material factors of the incentive system.
The variable part.
As we have already seen, the variable part includes two components,
that is, bonuses and bonuses.
The bonuses are primarily the incentives for short-term results.
What do I mean by short-term?
Since they are paid out quite often,
this is a signal to the worker that he has done a good job.
But not only that.
If the worker has done a bad job,
violated the rules,
did not bring the results we expected from him,
then we can reduce this bonus.
And in this case, if we talk in the format of a wick and a gingerbread,
then the bonus is not only a gingerbread,
but also the possibility of using a wick, if you want.
That is, if there is a high premium component in the compensation plan,
it can be used as a punishment for the worker.
That is, to deprive him.
Bonuses.
Bonuses provide several factors at once.
First of all, it is a guarantee of loyalty,
a guarantee of prospects,
because if a person knows that at the end of the year he will receive a large amount,
then, accordingly, he will probably work this year
and will not leave us.
The second is the stimulation of long-term results,
unlike the premium.
There are a number of positions, especially top ones,
where it is impossible to achieve results within a month or a quarter.
The results are visible only at the level of the company as a whole,
in the long term.
And, accordingly, bonuses support this work for the long term.
And finally, bonuses play the role of moral support,
of course, very strong,
because it is a very powerful signal to organizations and workers
that they are valuable to them.
I know organizations where workers say,
well, our salary is not very high,
but we work mainly for bonuses.
And finally, the social package.
The social package solves several problems at once.
First, it contributes to the level of support
of the level of life of the workers to which they are oriented.
Second, it provides loyalty.
And, on the other hand, it demonstrates to workers
that the organization is promising
and is going to work further,
and will not leave the market,
and will not be kicked out of work.
If the organization invests in the social package,
it demonstrates its stability.
Of course, the social package plays a significant moral role,
because it demonstrates the employer's work,
the care for its employees.
How does this happen?
We will see a little later.
Now I will say only one thing.
An effective system of stimulation of labor
requires us to design our house,
or a set of houses of different compensation plans,
depending on what we are, first of all,
and what categories of workers we expect.
Providing them with the right standard of living,
prospects, attachment to our organization,
stimulating short-term results,
or stimulating long-term results,
and moral factors,
that is, demonstrations to our workers,
our mutual loyalty to them.
There are several standard,
widely known around the world,
traditional compensation plans,
which I would like to start with.
The first thing to say in this regard is the question
of what we will put as the basis
of what we are going to pay the worker.
There are two approaches.
We will pay one worker their result.
If it is a machine that produces parts,
we want to pay him for a certain amount of parts,
produced in a certain amount of time and without defects.
If it is a sales manager,
we want to pay him for how many clients he attracted,
how much goods he let go,
what amount, what is his turnover,
that is, we pay according to the results.
The second payment system is temporary.
This means that we pay the worker
for the time spent at work,
provided that he was not just sitting on a chair,
but was doing something.
There are also mixed forms of labor payment,
which we will talk about in more detail.
I want to say right away that we can pay
each worker separately,
according to his results or his time,
or we can use collective or brigade forms
of labor payment,
when the result, time, or labor of the worker is paid,
and within it there is already a distribution of payment
among the workers.
So let's start with the payment according to the results.
It is called a collective payment,
and there are quite a few options.
The first is called a simple collective payment,
and in Russian it is called
as you dig, so you dig.
This means that if I stand by the conveyor
and collect the devices,
then from each device I have collected
and left my workplace further along the conveyor,
I get a certain amount of money.
How much is calculated separately
depends on the complexity of the work I do,
the cost of this device,
the risks, and a number of factors.
Strictly speaking, this is a case
when I do not have a permanent part of the labor payment,
but there is how much I have done,
or the same can be said about sales managers,
we know that the system is quite widespread
when a person does not receive anything from the organization
except a percentage of sales,
expressed in some units.
It seems that a simple collective payment
is simple, obvious, and very transparent.
In fact, it has a number of disadvantages,
starting with the fact that it does not provide
social protection for the worker,
it does not provide workers with confidence
in the future,
it does not show a positive attitude
to the worker from the enterprise,
and besides, between us,
a simple collective payment allows
a number of underground, under the carpet options
how it can be managed.
For example, the valuation of the same work
can be raised or reduced.
For example, a foreman who determines
how many workers did,
can only describe a small number of workers.
In short, it is not so simple,
not so beautiful,
not so transparent.
Therefore, for the vast majority of enterprises,
including sales,
today they refuse this simple collective payment.
I must add one more major drawback
of the collective payment.
As soon as the worker is offered
other valuations in another place,
he also goes there with pleasure.
There is a collective premium form of payment.
This is when, in addition to the payment
for the output or the results,
bonuses are added for quality,
for speed,
for what we agreed with the worker.
This is a more progressive form of labor payment,
because it really performs
a stimulating function for the worker.
There is also a collective progressive form
of labor payment.
What is it?
This form is used in cases
when we need to complete the work
as quickly as possible.
We have an urgent order,
and we need our workers to come out
in time, for which we will pay them separately,
and to cope with the production
of the above-mentioned product as quickly as possible.
Or, let's assume that we have a warehouse
full of goods that need to be liquidated urgently.
We can, of course, reduce the cost of goods,
but this is not always profitable.
Maybe it is more profitable for us
to pay our sellers
to work more intensively
and to invest in the specified period.
In this case, there is a collective
progressive form of labor payment,
which means that my workers
get a big bonus if they cope
with the work within the period
we gave them.
The next form of collective payment
is accord payment.
What is accord?
It is when the payment is made
not based on the number of produced parts,
not on the number of sold goods,
but on the performance of a certain,
usually large, amount of work.
In this context, accord payment
is often used in a brigade
or collective form,
when a team, a team or a team,
takes on the performance
of a certain amount of work,
and as a result,
they receive the amount of money
they agreed to pay to the employer.
The simplest examples are
when you hire a brigade
to build a cottage.
As a result of this work,
you have to pay a certain amount of money
to the building.
It seems that this accord system
is old and primitive,
and it is mainly related
to relatively simple types of labor.
No, it is not.
The same system is used
in the payment of project management.
When a project is implemented,
no matter in what field,
in the field of implementation,
in the field of development,
in the field of IT,
in the field of design,
a temporary team is created,
a team, as they say,
and this team works
until the result is achieved,
according to which
this accord payment is received.
There is also a well-known
accord-premium system.
This is when we not only agree
to perform a certain amount of work,
but also guarantee a higher premium
if, as in the case of a
production-progressive system,
the work is done on time,
a short period of time,
as a rule,
and with high quality.
Temporary payment.
At first glance,
it seems more primitive,
less stimulating than
the actual payment.
But let's look at the
members of our employees,
their role and functions.
We have employees who
clearly give a specific result,
which can be calculated in rubles
or in other units.
And there are employees whose
task is to ensure the process.
The most striking
manifestation is accounting.
They do not give results
but must perform their functions
accurately and on time.
Or, in the structure of your HR
management, there is a recruiter,
whose mission is to hire
employees and fill vacancies.
We can calculate how many
employees he hired and what
terms they served.
And next to him or in the next
room sits an inspector on duty,
whose task is to provide
the documents on time.
So, temporary payment
is used for those categories
of employees for which it is
impossible or difficult to
calculate specific results.
But it exists as a simple
temporariness.
The most primitive case is
when we pay the employee
the same amount of hours
they have worked,
in accordance with the tariff grid.
It is clear that this form
does not stimulate the work too much,
so there is a temporary payment
form, when in addition to
payment for a certain amount
of hours worked, the employee
receives a bonus for quality,
which can be reduced if
this quality does not meet
our requirements, or if
the employee commits some
violations of the discipline.
Let's talk a little bit about
collective or brigand forms
of labor payment.
We have already said that
the accordant and accordant-premium
systems are collective,
because quite rarely one person
can do a large amount of work.
As a rule, it is a collective work.
In terms of collective forms
of labor payment, I want to
touch on two points.
As we said, we have employees
who must give us the result,
and we pay for the result.
There are employees who must
perform their functions, and we
pay for their performance at a certain time.
And there are employees whose mission
is to organize the work of others.
These are managers, these are managers.
So we have to pay them for what?
That's right, we have already
mentioned this, for the collective result.
How is labor payment distributed
within the collective?
We have agreed
that for a certain
time, let's say a month,
we will implement a project
for our employer.
Let it be a consulting project
for the implementation
of our employer's
effective labor payment system.
Agreed? Great.
And we have completed this work,
and who of us should receive
how much for it?
There is a thing called
the labor participation coefficient.
This is a coefficient
that is assigned to each
of the members of our
respected labor collective
at the very beginning
of the work or at the end of the work,
and the rate of this worker
increases or decreases
according to how much he did,
how much he invested,
how much he worked there,
what was his role,
what was his mission.
The labor participation coefficient
can be assigned in a very different way.
In some cases, it is initially
negotiated in the contracts
with the members of our collective,
in other cases, as I said,
by the total result, we estimate
the final labor participation coefficient.
There are very democratic situations
when this labor participation coefficient
is roughly assigned by the collective.
There are absolutely dictatorial situations
when this labor participation coefficient
is assigned by the leader.
Each time it is done in a different way
depending on which form is more effective.
These are the traditional
compensation plans.
Of course, you have heard these words.
There is nothing new here.
And at the same time,
these plans can be used
for the assessment
and payment of labor
in quite simple cases
to very complex ones,
such as the formation
of the payment system
of the same project workers.
Therefore, I highly recommend
not to forget about these simple
compensation plans.
There are many situations
when the use of these traditional
and understandable systems
is not very effective.
In general, you should not invent
anything else.
In other cases,
it happens that you should.
We will talk about
how this will happen.
One of the factors
that ensure the attractiveness
of the employer in the labor market
is the assurance of the worker
in the future
and a certain level of stability.
Although in most cases
the payment of labor is somehow
tied to its results,
now almost everywhere,
with a rare exception,
combined forms of labor payment
are used, which combine
temporary payment
with payment based on results.
Therefore, it is especially important
for us to understand how this
constant component of labor payment
is formed, according to which
hourly payment is determined.
Here we will have to remember
that the term
tariff grid
is a word
that is often used
in English.
In English,
the word grid
has several meanings,
including the category,
in this case the tariff.
I prefer the Russian language
and in the future
I will use the word
tariff grid to denote this concept.
We divide all the employees
of our enterprise,
all the positions of our enterprise
into a number of tariff categories
and within each category
we pay the employee
in time as much as is provided
in this category.
Then we multiply by the number
of working hours.
What is the advantage of this scheme?
First, it ensures a certain
objectivity of labor assessment,
because these categories of the tariff grid
are not assigned from the top,
but are specially developed
to apply to the level
of complexity of the work,
what it requires from the employee
and how valuable this work
is for the enterprise.
The second point,
if we remember the factors
of ensuring the efficiency of labor payment,
is transparency, controllability
and, what is very important,
clarity for the employees.
The employee understands
what the tariff grid is,
what the tariff category is,
and what the conditions are.
When the tariff grid is built
and we know
how many employees
will receive
and how much will be paid
in advance,
it is very easy to combine
with the analysis of the enterprise economy
and we can always understand
how much of our labor payment
is paid by the employees
and we can understand
how effective it is.
As I said,
this system is not only transparent
for management,
it is clear for the employees
and provides them with a certain motivation
and creates a clear perspective
of career growth,
in any case, much better
than the traditional situation,
when employees receive their salary
in envelopes and no one knows
or suspects anything.
It seems that this system
is quite rigid,
but it is not so.
It is flexible and adaptive
because the entire system of grids
can be moved up or down,
it changes and it is clear
how to change it.
Therefore, it provides
a high level of adaptability
and adaptability
to the conditions of the labor market.
Today we can have
one system, one tariff grid,
and tomorrow we can change it
according to what is happening
in the labor market.
I will say more,
many enterprises move the tariff grid
as a compensation for inflation.
Tariff grid is revised
every six months or every year
taking into account inflation.
Such advantages
exist in this system.
I will say right away
that the implementation of the tariff grid
where it was not is a big job.
We will learn how to do it
in the third part of our course.
Now let's take a closer look
at what it is.
Here is the grid.
Please look at the graph
of the tariff grid
shown on the next slide.
We have several parameters
that are important
to determine
the design of the tariff grid.
The first one
is the number of tariff categories.
How many should there be?
There are six of them in this picture.
Maybe eight,
maybe 16,
but more than a few dozen
are rarely seen here.
The number of tariff categories
depends on the perspective
we want to create for our workers,
how high the ladder
they can climb
and how many positions
they can get.
If the organization is large
and there are many different people
in different positions,
then the tariff grid
will probably have
more categories.
If it is not so,
if the number of workers
is small
and the number of functions
and positions is limited,
then the tariff grid
will probably be useless.
The second question
is about the variables
such as the minimum wage
and the maximum wage.
The minimum wage
corresponds to the lowest
category of the tariff grid,
and the maximum
corresponds to the highest
category of the tariff grid.
What else is important to us?
The width of the tariff category.
How much does it fit?
How wide is this range?
Where does the tariff category
end and where does it begin?
It would seem easy to calculate
if we know the minimum wage
and the maximum wage.
We simply subtract the minimum
from the maximum,
divide by the number of grades
and get the width.
The width of the tariff category
shows a noticeable difference
in the increase in the wage.
This means that the tariff categories
do not necessarily have
the same width.
In most cases,
the low tariff categories
will be smaller than the high
tariff categories,
simply because for workers
at high wages
the percentage ratio requires
a greater increase
in the wage.
This is a very important point,
because in some cases
the tariff categories
do not intersect,
which means that
the higher the tariff category
begins where the lower
ends.
The jump from one category to another
automatically means an increase
in the wage.
If the tariff categories intersect,
it means that a person
in the lower category
can earn even more
than a person in the higher category.
Why do these intersections occur?
These intersections are a very
delicate management tool
that provides us
with a moral factor.
In some cases,
it turns out that
the workers who have been
working for us for a long time
and who are attached to us
are not able to
work for us anymore.
They earn a certain level,
but this level
does not correspond to the level
that new workers require.
We have to hire new workers
at a higher wage
than the old ones.
Of course, this is unfair
on the one hand,
but on the other hand,
it is simply unfair.
And where do you go from the third side?
The labor market is changing.
The labor market allows us
to manipulate the wage levels
so that the worker,
being at the fifth level,
earns more than at the sixth.
Thus, the necessary degree
of justice is observed.
This situation motivates
workers more
and does not encourage them
to take offense
and leave our enterprise.
As we can see,
it would seem that
the labor market is changing,
but on the other hand,
there are many variables.
When constructing a tariff grid,
all these variables,
both minimum and maximum wage,
number of shifts, median,
must be taken into account.
The range for creativity
is very wide.
There is a point of view
that the enterprise
should be permeated
by the tariff grid from bottom to top.
The enterprise should take into account
all the workers,
where the lowest-class cleaner
is at the bottom,
and the director is at the top.
I do not think this is right
because a number of enterprises
work as multifaceted enterprises.
It is difficult to build
a single tariff grid for the holding
where several factories,
logistics system,
trading house,
managing company,
are all working together.
Should it be built?
I think it should not.
It is necessary in cases
when there are many workers,
when the range of positions
is wide enough,
and it is necessary to sort it out
and figure out who and how much
we are going to pay.
If the range is not so wide
and the number of workers is not so large,
we can limit ourselves
to more primitive labor payment systems,
without having to go through
such a complex project
as creating and introducing
a tariff grid.
Let's look at the next table.
Here is a so-called
matrix of grades
for a tariff grid
with 8 categories.
Here is another
big advantage of a tariff grid,
namely the ability
to compare the results of labor,
the value of the enterprise
and the level of labor payment
of representatives
of various departments
who perform different work.
As we can see from this grid,
let's say, the fourth category.
In the sales department
we will have a manager
of sales,
in HR department
a manager of selection of personnel,
in the finance department
an accountant.
That is, there is an order
and we can look at the organization
as a whole,
determine where we may have
shortcomings.
In those cases,
when we observe sharp changes
in the labor market of a structural nature,
that is, not general,
but in relation to individual specializations,
education, profiles of specialists,
and there is a deficit
in the labor market,
we can move the tariff grid
in relation to those departments
where such specialists work.
Let's say,
if there are necessary engineers
at our enterprise,
and the number of such engineers
in the labor market is very limited,
in this case we can move
and change some of the grids
so that our offer
becomes more attractive for these workers.
So, colleagues,
we have finished with the summary
of the permanent part of the labor payment
and we will move on to the variable,
that is, the premium part.
In order to summarize the premium part,
there are many ways,
coefficients,
regulations,
and we will definitely address this
in the third part of our course.
But now I would like to talk
a little about the now widespread
and very good,
effective,
working, clear and transparent system,
which is called
the system of key indicators
or in English
the key productivity indicators.
We discussed this system
in our course on personal assessment,
now we will return to it again.
Let me remind you in a nutshell
what we are talking about.
We have our organization as a whole,
a large organization,
our corporation,
which has strategic plans.
In order to understand
whether we have implemented
these plans or not,
we need a set of indicators,
indicators that will be
clear and accountable,
and we can say whether we have implemented
them or not.
In order to implement the plans of the corporation
as a whole,
each unit must perform
its functions.
Based on the company's plans,
plans of its departments are built,
for which this system of key indicators
is also created.
So, from top to bottom,
each employee receives
his own key indicator,
which he must rely on.
The payment of bonuses
depends on how
these indicators are implemented.
If 100%, then the employee
will receive 100% of his bonus,
if not, then most likely not.
But if 150%, then maybe
150% of his bonus.
The advantage of this system is
that each employee,
each unit knows
how much he will be rewarded,
even if the unit is functional
and does not work for the result,
but for the process.
It would seem that there should be
only a temporary form of labor payment.
This is not the case.
For each unit, including the accounting,
the office,
and all other units
that work on the process,
you can enter 2, 3, 4, 5 indicators
that will clearly determine
how well they worked.
The most primitive of them
is the number of errors.
Whether they were allowed or not.
The most important thing here
is that these indicators
are clearly and unambiguously written.
What is the disadvantage of this system?
It is very difficult to implement.
When a corporation is large,
the implementation of such a system
requires several years,
huge costs,
and is not always justified.
But I want to say that
if we do not create a system of KPIs
for the organization as a whole,
we can introduce such KPIs
for individual units
and for individual positions.
The advantage is that the employee
will understand what we will
fund him for,
and we will understand it very well.
As for the employees whose tasks
are functional,
I want to give the following example,
which is very indicative
and historical.
There is a legend
that the great and wise king Solomon
paid his regular doctor
only when he was healthy.
But when he was ill,
he stopped paying.
Guess what the doctor did
and what he would do
if he were paid exactly the opposite.
In translation into our language,
this means that for the doctor
the key indicator of efficiency
was the health of his employer.
Accordingly, if the PPI was not carried out,
the salary was not produced.
We discussed in detail
the system of formation
of the permanent part
of the salary
and talked about the formation
of the premium component.
Now let's turn to the next component
of the stimulation system,
which is called the social package.
There are many legends,
many social myths
and many points of view.
In particular,
there is a point of view
that if we pay a lot to people,
why should we provide
some social package?
This point of view existed
for a while,
but then it disappeared.
It turns out that not everything
that an organization needs
is in the state of people
at the expense of their labor.
Let's talk about the purpose
of the social package.
First, it is a positive
image of the employer.
Or, as we said,
if the organization allows
the creation of a social package,
it means that it is stable,
has certain reserves,
intends to work further,
and such an organization
looks more reliable
as an employer.
Second,
by providing the employees
with a social package,
we show respect to them,
we show that they are
important to us.
When a person in an organization
that has a social package
comes home and shows
his family
what he gets from the organization
except for the labor payment,
it usually works on his prestige,
raises his self-esteem,
and it is a positive image.
I want to give you a strange example.
Now, in most cases,
managers are hired
and asked if the social package
provides for the payment of mobile communication.
It is quite strange.
Can people with such a high
labor payment
not find money
for a mobile phone payment?
In fact, it is a purely moral factor.
If we pay a person
for mobile communication,
we show that he is so important
that he should be in touch
and we are ready to pay for it.
This is a demonstration
of his importance.
I think that if we paid
for the payment of the canteen,
instead of the high-paid worker,
they would not be so happy.
Or the payment of shirts.
They would not be as happy
as the payment of a mobile phone.
The next point
is the fact
that it is just
an increase in the ability
of our employees.
The well-known
components of the social package
are medical insurance,
food,
and payment of travel.
In some cases,
it is the delivery of employees
from the nearest metro station
to the office.
We help people in this way,
but we also solve one problem.
If a person is sick,
he needs to be treated.
If he comes to work
by public transport,
he will be nervous,
he will feel bad,
he will be late for work.
And if he comes back,
he will complain about traffic jams.
If a person gets to the office
by car, he will complain
about traffic jams.
He will complain about it
and he will be nervous.
Therefore, we provide
a higher level of
employability for our employees.
The last point is
the solution of problems
that interfere with the work of our employees.
We could give money to our employees,
but we will soon see an example
that shows
how much more effective
it is to solve the problems
of our employees
than to pay them.
In such cases,
problems are not solved
with money.
In such cases,
we should create a social package.
We are kind and we want
to do good to our employees.
It is very pleasant.
Unfortunately, we are a commercial organization
and our task is to earn money.
Therefore, it would be unprofitable
to invest money in nothing.
Therefore, when we create
a social package for our organization,
we should take into account
the savings of expenses
that we would have incurred
if we did not have a social package.
Secondly,
very often organizations
offer such goods and services
as a part of the social package
that the organization
can solve better
than the employee.
I will give you an example.
The organization offers
a bank guarantee
for the payment of loans.
The organization cannot provide
such guarantees for itself.
Or, let's say,
we sign a collective insurance contract
with an insurance company
for the life and medical insurance
of our employees.
We would have done it
if each of our employees
signed such a contract.
This would have cost
much more money.
We would have bought
a social insurance service
for our employees.
What else can we do?
The fact is that
the so-called
insurance culture of the population
is not well developed in our country.
Our people do not like
to be insured,
unlike, for example,
Americans or Europeans
who know that they should be insured
because there are risks.
If our organization
had a social insurance system
with a family budget,
our employees would have forgotten
about it.
Our employees are insured.
They are happy and we are satisfied.
So, once again,
there are two important factors.
First, the cost savings.
Second, the efficiency of our staff.
Third, the ability of our organization
to solve problems better
than each employee individually.
This is how you should design
a social insurance package.
Let's look at how
this social insurance package
can be distributed in the company.
There are four options.
Option number one
is the most common
and common for all.
All the employees
get the same set of goods
and services
as part of the social insurance package.
Is it good?
Not really.
On the one hand,
it shows the unity of all employees
and the equality of all employees
from the cleaning lady
to the deputy general director.
But is it always justified?
Probably not.
That's why there are
distribution principles.
One of them is
hierarchy.
The more important you are,
the more you get
as part of the social insurance package.
This is not always justified
because this system
is not very democratic
and often makes the employees
envious of the social insurance package.
This structure
is typical
for old organizations
where hierarchy and ranks
are more important than
the real contribution of employees.
Another option is
the tariff grid.
The higher the tariff grid,
the more you can get
as part of the social insurance package.
This is a more effective
form of organization
because it emphasizes
not only your status
but also what you bring
and how much you are valued.
The last principle is quite new.
It was born in Japan
and is called the cafeteria principle.
What is it?
Imagine that
the compensation of lunches
is paid by the employees
in the cafeteria,
the gasoline is paid
and the children
are paid
by the employees
in the summer.
Here we have two employees
who work in the same position.
They have the same rank
in the tariff grid
and the same hierarchy in the company.
They are equally valuable
as individuals and carriers
but only for a moment.
One of them lives
on the other side of the city
and has to drive all the way.
The other one lives in the next building
and gets to work in 3 minutes.
The first one has a stomach ulcer
so he does not eat at work
but brings food in a jar.
The second one
eats in the cafeteria
and gets compensated for it.
One of them is the father
of three children
and it is very important
that these children
will do their summer work.
The other one is childless
and does not need it.
The package is the same for everyone.
What should we do?
The first thing we can do
is to provide each employee
with a set of social services
of his choice.
But it will be an uncontrollable system
and we will stop understanding
who will get what
and who will not.
We will not have a system
that will only distribute
social services to employees.
That is why we use the cafeteria
which is the following.
Please look at the next slide.
On the left side of the slide
we have the options
that the company can provide
to the employee in the social package.
I repeat, these are just examples.
In fact, the range of these services
is extremely wide.
We create several menus
each of which includes
four services from this package.
As an employee, I can choose
the menu that I like the most.
If I do not have a family,
I am young,
I drive a car,
I love using my mobile phone,
I have free time
and I like to do sports,
I will choose menu number one
where I will be paid for gasoline,
mobile connection, gym,
and insurance so that
I do not get hurt.
If I get hurt, I will get compensation.
Let us imagine that
in our company
a woman works
on the same rate as me,
a mother of two children,
unfortunately she has no husband,
she does not have enough money,
so she will probably choose food,
she will probably choose delivery
to the office by bus from the subway
because she does not have a car,
she will definitely choose
to pay for her own vacation,
because it is difficult for her
to save enough money
and she will choose
a vacation for her children
because the children
need to be adjusted somewhere in the summer.
This is how this
cafeteria principle works.
It seems to me that today
it is probably one of the most effective.
And now, dear colleagues,
I suggest you consider
a project that I encountered
in my work practice,
which very brightly and beautifully
demonstrates what a social package is
and what its mission is,
what its function is,
compared to direct payments
to our employees
as part of the labor stimulation system.
In one of the large Russian cities
there is a reinforced concrete plant,
a GBI plant,
a reinforced concrete plant.
It produces
construction from concrete,
which is then used by the same plant
to build buildings and structures.
A significant part of the employees
of this enterprise are women.
And now imagine
what happens in May.
In May, a significant part of the workers
of our plant
come there,
they are put on the table
with a statement of leaving
and are removed for three months to the country house.
Because each of them knows
what their children will do
while they are at work.
And they have holidays.
They are in the city.
Who do they go with?
What do they do there?
Do they smoke, drink?
Of course, no mother can stand it.
And if we also consider
that she grows potatoes, tomatoes, cucumbers,
it turns out that
compensation is quite adequate.
But this is the period
when the plant is most loaded
with orders.
So what do we have?
In the summer period,
the maximum load
and demand of labor resources.
And in the same period,
a sharp drop in labor resources
of the employees of the enterprise
with further return or not.
So what was done?
A summer camp for children
was organized at the base of the local foam institute.
It was called
Children are our future.
It provided the entire set,
including hiking,
theater performances,
excursions, sports competitions
and a mandatory short internship
at the enterprise with paid money
for this internship.
This meant, look how your parents work.
What happened as a result?
The current staff
at this plant
became negative.
This means that no one wanted to leave.
The gate was built in the interest of those who wanted to work there.
That is, the problem was completely solved.
The enterprise was booming
throughout the region,
became well-known,
the mayor came, shook hands,
television came.
In short, it worked very well
for PR and advertising of this enterprise.
And if we count what it cost?
I will not give you a lot of numbers,
I will tell you only one thing.
The amount that was spent on this venture
was absolutely adequate
to increase the salary
of each employee
at the enterprise
by 50 rubles.
Now tell me,
what do you think would happen
if we simply increased
the salary of each employee by 50 rubles?
How would this affect their behavior?
Would the employees leave
the enterprise in the summer?
I'm afraid that they would not be able to survive
150 rubles.
And their problem was solved.
This is what a social package is.
We can save money
to help our employees
solve their problems.
We have finished the second part of our lesson,
which was dedicated to the tools
for stimulating labor.
In the third part,
we will discuss
how these tools
are introduced into the organization,
what we need to do
to create a good
and sustainable
organization.
And we will also discuss
how to create a good
and sustainable
organization,
what we need to do
to create a clear
and manageable
tariff grid,
and what compensation plans
we can design
to meet
the expectations of our employees
and solve the problem
of creating an effective
labor stimulation system.
Dear colleagues,
we already know a lot
about how to create an effective system.
We know what tools
we can use to create such a system.
Let's now play a little
in an enterprise that wants
to introduce
such a system of labor payment
and stimulation
to solve two tasks we know well.
To make the enterprise good
and the employees too.
Let's start with the fact
that we will divide all our employees
into five categories.
We pay the lowest
to the highest.
And we assign each category
a point with a step of 100.
The lowest category
will have 100 points,
the next 200, 300, 400, 500.
Let's say we know
how to do it.
It's not that easy, but let's assume we know.
And now we will build a curve
that you see on the slide
and which,
according to the principle of noticeable difference,
should have this shape.
It's not a straight line,
it will be a curve.
The slope will decrease
as the labor payment volume increases.
So, the low labor payment category
will be flat,
and the high labor payment category
will be almost straight.
Almost vertical, sorry.
Now let's analyze
the real labor payment
of our employees.
Let's say,
this is the real labor payment
of our employees
and let's compare it with this curve.
The blue dots are the drawings.
What should we pay attention to?
In general,
these points in the curve
are more or less approximated,
but in some cases
they are quite far from it.
The structure of the labor payments
in our enterprise
is quite individual.
And the distribution,
the deviation from the theoretical curve
is quite large.
As a rule, it happens.
But our task,
if we want to make the system manageable,
if we want to bring it
to a set of understandable
and manageable parameters,
it's not enough for us.
And we want to bring the system
to such a curve,
close to the ideal curve,
at least in the constant part
of the labor payment.
To do this,
we need to do grading,
that is, to build a tariff grid,
that is, to distribute all our employees
by certain ranks,
depending on the value
of the employee and his labor for the enterprise.
And after that,
we need to compare,
assign to each of these levels
a certain fork of deposits,
which we talked about.
And after that,
we need to finish by attaching
to the system we built
an additional stimulation system
in the form of a social package,
additional payments, bonuses,
and so on.
It would seem that this is a very simple
three-step task.
In fact, it will take us a lot of time,
because in solving each of these steps,
in completing each of these steps,
there are quite a few degrees of freedom.
And we still have to choose
which way to go,
because, as we have seen,
the range of options is quite wide,
from one case,
when a person receives only
a temporary payment and nothing else,
and this system works poorly,
to another case,
when he receives only a percentage
of the result of the work and nothing else,
and we see that this is also bad.
But there are quite a few options
between them,
and which one we choose depends
on a number of factors.
On our will,
on the quality of our work,
on our corporate personnel policy,
on the market sector in which we work,
and so on.
The first thing we need to do
in order to distribute positions
in our company
on a certain grid,
we need to make a description
and an assessment of these positions.
What is included here?
For each position,
we must specify the following parameters.
The first is the name of the position,
so that we can identify it.
The second is its purpose.
Why is it needed in the organization?
What does a person do
in this position?
I must tell you right away
that the assessment sometimes shows
that some positions are absolutely unnecessary,
and in vain they exist.
The third is the place
in the organizational structure
of this position,
to whom it is subordinate,
and what role it plays in the organizational diagram.
This is a very important and useful process of analysis,
because it may turn out
that our position is suspended somewhere
and it is not very clear
to whom the employee who is on it is subordinate.
Or maybe it is in the wrong place
and it will have to be moved
to improve the efficiency of our enterprise.
The next thing is
who and what positions
are subordinate
to the positions we are considering.
I mean direct subordination,
which is conditioned
by the organizational structure,
and functional subordination,
that is, indirect subordination.
When an employee in this position
has the right to manage
in one way or another
other people at our enterprise
who are not subordinate to him.
For example,
a sales department employee
can manage a warehouse worker
who releases the purchased
product to the buyer.
The next thing
that is extremely important
is the determination of key functions
and responsibilities.
That is, in fact, the duty instruction
what this person should do at work.
And there should not be many of these functions.
They should be clear,
but at the same time they should be very clear.
In some cases,
it turns out that functions
that no one performs at the enterprise
are formed,
they should be performed.
And this duplication should also be avoided.
The next thing is the education
that is required
to take this position.
Sometimes this education
is very high.
Sometimes we overestimate them.
There are a number of cases
when a person without a higher education
can quite well cope
with this position,
and we require that he
must have completed the higher education.
And what is very important
is the improvement of the qualification.
As I said,
we live in a world of constant changes,
and it is impossible to stand still.
And for a number of positions
a person must,
a person needs to
effectively fulfill his duties,
but quite often
to pass a certain improvement of the qualification.
This is especially true of our accountants,
because, as we know,
our tax legislation and the law
tend to change periodically.
The required work experience.
What work experience
does a person need
to take this position?
Accordingly, if it is a large one,
then the position will weigh more.
If it is insignificant,
then it will weigh less.
Description of knowledge, skills, competencies,
paying attention to special
special skills and knowledge
that are necessary
for this position,
and not at all.
Another very important point
is the question of responsibility.
What does responsibility mean?
What results
can our organization have
when an employee
takes the wrong decision
or behaves wrongly?
What results does this person
answer for?
These results can be organizational
or financial.
In a number of cases
for different levels of positions
the amount of financial resources
that a person can allocate
without asking anyone
is determined.
And above this amount
the person must turn to the higher management.
To determine the premium part,
we need to do a boil,
as we have already said.
That is, 3-5 indicators
that are key for this position
so that we can say
whether a person works effectively
or not, or not at all.
Agree that the procedure
is not easy, it takes a lot of time.
The main question is where
we will get this information.
Most often this information is collected
by the organization using special procedures
where the analysis of documents,
monitoring of people at work,
as well as surveys are included.
Special survey sheets are created.
There are already standardized sheets.
In some cases,
they will have to be created by ourselves.
Nevertheless,
we collect the information
in a certain way and approve it
to the management.
According to the description of positions,
we can weigh the positions,
that is, compare them
and distribute them along the grid
that we have already mentioned
and which is our goal
in the implementation of this difficult work.
How can we evaluate positions
after we have described them?
There are only three methods.
Classification,
Arranging
and Binary Factor Method.
Classification is when
we set a certain grid in advance
and lay out the positions
along this grid
according to the results
described by me.
Arranging is when we take all the positions
in our organization
and distribute them, for example,
by the method of pair comparison.
Which position is more difficult, A or B?
Probably A.
A, B or C?
C.
Thus, we arrange all the positions
from the lowest
in our system of grades
to the highest.
You will agree that classification
and arranging seem to be quite simple methods,
but this is not quite the case,
because both
carry a lot of information noise,
contradictions in decision-making,
as well as subjectivism.
To avoid all this,
the so-called binary factor method
has been developed.
There are several of them.
We will consider
this method
using the example of one of them,
which is the most common
and well-known in the world.
I mean the system
proposed by the organization Hey! Group,
which is also called
Hey's method.
So, binary factor method.
What should be done for this?
First, we select
the factors
that are important for the organization.
Moreover, for each of these factors
we must determine their weight,
that is, how important
this factor is for the organization,
based on the total weight
of the factors, 100%.
We will see how this is done a little later.
Secondly, we describe the positions
based on the example
that you have just seen in the slide,
and we assess the weight
of each factor in this position.
On the one hand,
the importance of the factor for the organization,
and on the other hand,
the presence of this factor
at this workplace.
What does this mean?
For example, such a factor
as making independent decisions.
For the organization as a whole,
this may be a very important factor,
or maybe not, because decisions
do not need to be made in particular.
It is arranged in such a way
that the manager of the company
must make decisions
for the company,
because the market is changing,
the clients are different,
the conditions are different,
the situation is different.
And if this is a sales manager
who has to let go of the goods,
the buyer who came
and asked for the goods,
well, probably the decisions
are not very good here,
and therefore making independent decisions
is not very good.
On the other hand,
the importance of the factor for the organization
and the weight of the factor in these positions
gives us a total weight for each position,
according to which we determine
its position on our grid.
Thus, we determine
the weight for each position
or grade for our organization.
How many of them we lead
is, in general, a matter of our will
and understanding of the situation.
Not much is known about
the number of positions,
but it is desirable not to be too few.
And after that,
having broken
our positions
by grades,
we bind them
to the tariff grid.
That is, for each of the grades
we determine the upper and lower
salary range, as well as the median,
or rather, the median,
from which the upper and lower range
of the level of labor payment
will be received.
This is a rather long, complex
and labor-intensive system.
Let's consider it
using the example of the HE method,
which I just mentioned.
Here is the binary-factor method.
What factors can be present here?
Let's assume
the degree of authority,
the scale of actions,
or the turnover.
What turnover
does the employee
have in terms of money?
One can do nothing,
while the other can do a lot.
The degree of influence
on the company's overall results
is an important factor.
Technical and professional knowledge
of employees is very important
for one company,
but not for the other.
Management skills.
Serious, powerful management skills
and competencies of a corresponding education
are necessary for working in this company.
The skills of the employees
are important for some,
but not for others.
The complexity of decision-making
is important for one company,
but not for the other.
Thus, we get an assessment
of the importance of each factor
for the company.
How?
We conduct a survey of the company's managers,
sum up the results,
analyze what has been achieved.
It turns out that for different industries,
for different sectors of the market,
these weight factors
can be quite different.
Although there is a share of subjectivism here.
But what can you do?
Where is it not?
The H-group method
or the H-method of the guide tables
includes what factors?
There are only three groups of factors.
These are knowledge and skills,
solving problems at work,
and responsibility.
Each of them has its own weight factor.
Knowledge and skills
are the depth of knowledge,
how much a person should be a specialist,
the breadth of knowledge,
how versatile a person should be,
and the level of communication,
where, how, with whom,
in what order,
to what extent of complexity
the interaction is carried out.
The second is the problem solving.
Freedom of thought.
Problems are solved in a narrow range
and nowhere else,
but we have a lot of options.
The complexity of problems.
How many factors do problems require?
How standard is it?
Should we solve problems
whose solution is already known?
Or should we invent something new
that may not even exist in the world?
The third is the level of responsibility.
What is responsibility?
Freedom of action.
What freedom is provided for this person
at his workplace?
Can he make decisions on his own
and act at his discretion?
Or should he agree
with his boss every step?
Or is his every step prescribed
and described in the system
of duties?
The second is the influence of activity
on the end result.
There are jobs that are not very important
for the company's end result,
and there are jobs that are of fundamental importance,
for example, the work of a financial
or commercial director,
and in some cases,
the manager, who can bet
a very large amount of money on his company.
And also the scope of control.
This is the field of control
over people, actions, situations,
and results that are provided
for this position.
This is a set of factors.
It is widely used all over the world.
It can serve as a basis
for your work.
But I repeat,
this work is labor-intensive
and you should mainly resort to it
for the sake of your work.
It is not possible to build a system
of grades and a corresponding
tariff grid with simpler methods.
So, colleagues,
our review of building
an effective system of labor stimulation
I would like to finish
with another very important mechanism
that we have not yet touched on.
This is the binding of labor results
to some of our plans,
to what we want to get
from a person at his workplace.
And here is where the standards
play a very important role.
Imagine that we want
to sell more and more
from a manager,
which is one of the most difficult
categories in terms of labor pay.
In this case,
we will pay him more
for the better results,
but how long will this go on?
In theory,
a person should work more
to earn more
and always strive for it.
In practice,
this is not the case at all.
A person reaches a certain saturation
and then he no longer strives
for increase in the result
or pay for his labor.
There is a ceiling.
How to deal with this?
The only way that humanity knows
is to assign specific indicators
that a person should achieve.
How can we promote a sales manager
if we want him to work
in our organization
and not leave?
That is, he should have a good
constant part of the labor pay
and a good award.
This award should be tied
to his results,
not to any, but to the results
we expect from him.
This is what the standard is for.
It shows us
what result we want
to get from this employee.
In this case,
it will be the same sales manager.
We set certain indicators.
How do we set it?
This is a question for our marketing
and sales services.
Obviously, it should be not over the cloud,
but achievable.
Otherwise, everyone will understand
that this is a kind of inflation
and no one will strive for these indicators.
On the other hand,
it should be high enough
and even high enough.
That is, to get a job every time
And then the labor pay
is built in the following way.
We calculate the indicator
called the result.
Look at the formula
in the frame. It is very simple.
We take the actual result
for example, in a month
and divide it by the standard,
and then multiply it by 100%.
This means that if a person has not reached the standard,
then, consequently,
his result will be lower than 100%.
And if he has reached it,
then his result will be higher than 100%.
But if we set such standards
above which we can work,
then we probably do not set them
correctly.
How is the salary calculated?
Based on the base,
that is, the constant level of labor pay,
according to the tariff grid.
We take the base part
as a constant
and add to it
the base part multiplied by the result.
What does this mean?
For example,
if our employee, our manager,
in the base part
receives 10,000 rubles per month,
it means that he will receive
10,000 plus the bonus,
which will be calculated as
10,000 multiplied by its result.
For example,
if our employee
showed a result of 90%,
then he will receive
19,000 rubles.
This is a clear transparent system
that meets
most of the requirements
for an effective system
of labor pay.
Is it always so easy
and simple to apply?
No. The fact is that in some cases
we want the employee to achieve
not one indicator,
but several at the same time.
Moreover, these indicators
can contradict each other.
Let's give an example.
Imagine that we have a store
that sells complex household appliances,
accessories, paper, pens.
On the one hand,
it is an expensive product
that is rarely bought in units,
but is expensive,
and on the other hand
it is a cheap product
that is often bought in small quantities.
What do you think
the company is making money on?
If you think that it is an expensive product,
you are wrong.
A company that sells a lot of small products
is more likely to sell
a lot of expensive products.
Let's imagine
that we have a cell phone store.
There are two stores next to each other.
One has a performance,
that is, a return,
a result, a turnover
twice as much as the other.
What's the matter?
We start analyzing.
It turns out that in one store
a person comes,
buys a cell phone and leaves.
He buys a computer,
a screen cleaner,
and so on.
And the person buys all this.
It turns out that this is able
to increase the turnover
literally twice as much as the other.
But how will our sales manager
or sales consultant react to this?
His salary depends on
how much he has realized the product,
how much turnover he has.
This means that he will usually
strive to sell a more expensive product.
What does this lead to?
If a person comes to the store
for a refrigerator,
expensive camera,
expensive cell phone,
the sales manager will
help him.
And if he came for a pack of paper,
a pen or a phone cord,
no one will pay much attention to him.
Thus, the company
will lose customers.
Let's assume that we want
to build a system
of adequate promotion
of effective work of sales managers
or sales consultants
who sell both expensive
and cheap products.
We want them to do both
equally effectively.
Then we apply
a multi-factor system of standards.
In this case, there are two factors.
The first is the turnover
that our sales manager
should show.
The second is the number of
sales salesmen.
As we did last time,
we set a standard for each
of these indicators.
In one case,
the table shows 100,000 turnover
and 200 salesmen.
The fact that our salesman
showed is
880 turnover
and 205 salesmen.
In the first case,
the result is
88%,
and in the second case
it is 103%.
We multiply both numbers
and get 91%.
Thus, we can encourage
not only individual work
but also collective work.
For example, we can change
a sales manager
or a sales consultant.
Then we can apply
an additional KTO
or distribute the share
of each of the results.
The KTO is very flexible
and allows to achieve
a lot of work stimulation.
However, we should not
try to regulate
every behavior of a person
by introducing new standards.
Two of the standards work well,
three of them do not.
When there are five or six of them,
they start to absorb each other
because a person can achieve
good results in one indicator,
average in another
and bad in the third one.
In general, everything will be
approximately the same.
Therefore, I do not recommend
multiplying the standards
and coefficients without measuring.
Use 2-3 coefficients,
it will be enough.
Dear colleagues,
we have come to the end of our course.
I hope it was useful for you.
I hope you will be able
to apply the knowledge
you have gained
as a result of this course.
To practice,
let's solve a few problems
or cases
that you will find
at the end of your notebook.
This is a specific situation
for which you must
take into account all the knowledge
you have gained,
develop compensation plans
and explain why you use
these options, not others.
You can manipulate only 5 variables
that are the basic contribution,
bonuses, bonuses and social package.
I ask you to finish
watching our video lecture
on this topic,
solve these cases on your own,
and then turn on the continuation
and see what solutions
can be applied here.
I hope that your decisions
will be similar to those
that we offer.
So, dear colleagues, I hope you have successfully solved the cases you have been offered.
Now let's try to analyze our solutions, see what we were guided by in each of these cases, and what results we should get from this.
So, our first case is a compensation plan, which we call the elite plan.
It is intended for VIP staff,
that is, for the first-time employees.
The question is
what do we want from these first-time employees?
We want long-term results
from them,
and if they do not give us such results,
we will probably get rid of them.
Do we want short-term results?
Well, most likely
a person who holds such a position
in the company,
who works for the company as a whole,
whose activities are visible
at the company level as a whole,
will get long-term results.
If we start to promote him
every month,
it can be perceived
as an insult.
In addition, our task
is to provide him with signs of respect
and freedom from solving
small household problems
so that he can work
with full dedication.
Therefore, the compensation plan
we propose includes
a very high salary,
which is the highest level of the tariff grid.
It is obvious that the managers
of the company should get
the highest level,
but now we need to adapt to the labor market.
This means that we should be in the middle
of the labor market,
but not below it,
otherwise the people we need
will hardly come to work.
We do not use long-term results.
We do not use bonuses,
but they are very high,
and maybe even an option.
Now it is being used more and more often.
That is, the employee is paid
the money for the results
of the company's activities
per year.
In practice, the employee
becomes one of the co-owners,
one of the shareholders of the enterprise.
But the social package
must be high, expensive,
and it must be individual.
Individual means that it must help
this employee in solving
his problems.
What can be included here?
For example, an apartment
or a personal car with a driver,
which will ensure that our highly
expensive and important employee
does not come to work
in a state of emergency
in Moscow traffic jams,
but rather thinks about how to get to work
and how to start
and implement
his main work functions.
Something like this.
What is the next compensation plan?
The next compensation plan,
we call it a manager's plan,
is a plan that is oriented
to the managers of the middle
or lower ranks.
That is, people who lead
the department and are responsible
for specific areas of work,
primarily group.
The positional contribution here
must be average in the market,
otherwise it will not work,
but it should not
exhaust the entire amount of reward.
It should be approximately 60-70%
of the total reward of our employee.
Prizes, yes, of course,
monthly or quarterly,
the rest 30-40%,
and according to the results of the department.
They must certainly take into account
the result of the work of our employee
precisely in the department
as a manager,
that is, how he managed
his subordinates.
Third, bonuses.
They can be,
but not so big.
And it is very important,
they may not be,
everything can be limited by bonuses.
But if we pay a bonus to such an employee,
we demonstrate to him
the importance of his personal work,
his department for the company as a whole.
The social package.
This package is certainly necessary,
but there is no need
to adjust this package
to the needs of this particular employee
as in the previous case.
It can be a general social package
provided to everyone
equal to him in position,
probably according to the cafeteria system.
The social package should be increased
as a result of the experience,
which increases the loyalty
of our organization's employees,
and according to the achieved results,
it can also affect
the growth of our employee.
The next compensation plan,
we call it a professional plan,
is a plan for qualified specialists,
first of all,
engineering specialists,
who do not manage other people,
that is, they are not managers.
Their task is,
first of all,
to provide uninterrupted
functioning of equipment,
mechanisms, inventions,
and all that concerns
the technical part of our enterprise,
including, of course,
IT specialists.
The salary should be,
again, medium in the market,
not high,
and not low either,
and should be 70-80% of the reward.
The remaining 20-30%
of the reward
should be received,
of course, as a bonus,
every month,
but in this case,
it should be received in full
only if it fully fulfills
the obligations imposed on it.
If it makes mistakes,
if there are errors,
if there are problems at the enterprise,
then we can reduce this bonus a little.
I think that bonuses should not be used
in this case,
except for certain private cases
where the work of the company
affects the results of the enterprise as a whole,
for example, the technical director.
The social package
is the same as managers have,
that is, it is common for the company,
probably, the best is the cafeteria system,
and, again,
it should take into account
the work of our employee
at the enterprise and the result they have achieved.
The next compensation plan
is called the Clerc,
and it is intended for the executive staff
of the infrastructure units
and our office,
for secretaries,
for assistant managers,
and so on, for the office staff.
The salary here, too,
the ratio of the salary and bonus
should be the same
as in the previous case,
that is, 70-80% of the salary
will be the salary,
and the rest of the bonus,
which we can also use
to encourage those
who work well
and punish those
who make mistakes,
and so on.
There is no need
for bonuses.
The social package,
yes, it should be,
it can work according to the principle of the cafeteria,
it may not work according to it.
The minimum package,
which is usually the food,
the compensation of the transport fee,
well, maybe some other expenses,
and most of all,
it should be tied to the experience
of our employee,
if we want to secure
the employee for the enterprise.
It is difficult to say
about the results,
probably not,
because employees of this category
rarely give specific results.
Usually, they require,
as we have already said,
a certain amount of money.
The next option
of the compensation plan,
we will call it progressive,
is intended for sales managers
of various categories,
that is, those people who sell,
sell actively,
do not stand at the counter
and do not wait for the buyer to turn to them,
but look for the buyer,
consult him,
and then make a purchase.
Here the situation will change dramatically.
The base salary should be
relatively small
and be 30-50% of the reward.
This is, so to speak,
for securing the employee for the enterprise
and supporting him in those situations
when, for one reason or another,
he did not trade too much.
The bonuses are large,
up to half,
and according to individual
or group results.
The bonuses should,
unlike the previous case,
not be guaranteed
and be reduced if a person
has not achieved the results,
but vice versa,
not be guaranteed in any case,
but be increased
when our employees
achieve the appropriate results.
Please do not forget
about the system of planning
and the use of vouchers.
There are no bonuses,
but there are some sales managers
who make up half of the company's income.
And finally,
the social package.
Yes, it is good,
useful, necessary,
it helps, it supports,
but it is the same as in the previous categories,
although, of course,
taking into account the achieved results.
The next very simple
compensation plan,
we call it a business plan,
is for trading agents
and individual workers.
The basic contribution
is either not there at all
or it is minimal.
The payment is almost free,
that is, a person receives a bonus
because he has earned it.
The bonus is the main part
of his income.
Bonuses are not needed.
The social package is not necessary,
most likely not needed,
but I want to emphasize
a small detail.
If a company wants to secure
these categories,
it is necessary to pay special attention.
They should be supported morally,
they should be held competitions
for the best, they should be honored,
they should be shown their value
for the enterprise,
that the enterprise believes in them,
the enterprise hopes for them.
Otherwise, without such a moral support,
as practice shows,
the loyalty to the enterprise
is sharply reduced by the employee.
The employee should get a percentage
of what he has done.
He needs respect.
This is the final part
of our lesson.
I will summarize the lesson
and wish you all the best
in the field of our common
and difficult business
of managing the staff.
Thank you for your attention.